# Computational Phantoms Project

## Overview

The Computational Phantoms project aims to develop a comprehensive set of
algorithms for generating DICOM study sets of computational phantoms. These
study sets are intended to be utilized in the field of radiotherapy,
specifically for the validation of various image registration algorithms. By
providing accurately simulated medical images, this project enhances the testing
and verification of image registration techniques, ultimately contributing to
improved treatment planning and delivery processes.

## Project Goals

The main objectives of the Computational Phantoms project include:

1. **Algorithm Development**: Create sophisticated algorithms capable of
generating DICOM study sets for computational phantoms. These algorithms will
ensure high-fidelity simulations of medical images, replicating the
characteristics of actual patient scans.

2. **Radiotherapy Validation**: The generated study sets will serve as valuable
tools for validating image registration algorithms in the context of
radiotherapy. By offering realistic test cases, the project assists in
evaluating the accuracy and robustness of image registration techniques.

3. **Modalities Supported**: The project will initially focus on three primary
medical image modalities: 
 - Head CT (512 x 512 x 512 pixels)
 - Head MRI T1 (256 x 256 x 64 pixels)
 - Head MRI T2 (256 x 256 x 64 pixels)

4. **Quality Assurance**: Ensuring the accuracy and consistency of the generated
phantoms is paramount. The algorithms will be meticulously designed and
validated to meet the high standards required for medical applications.

## Usage

The Computational Phantoms project can be utilized for the following purposes:

1. **Image Registration Algorithm Testing**: Researchers, practitioners, and
developers in the field of radiotherapy can use the generated study sets to
rigorously assess the performance of their image registration algorithms. This
aids in fine-tuning algorithms and identifying areas for improvement.

2. **Educational Purposes**: The project can serve as an educational resource
for institutions offering training and courses in medical physics, radiology,
and radiotherapy. Students can practice and learn about image registration
techniques using realistic simulated images.

3. **Research and Development**: The project provides a foundation for further
research and development in the domain of image registration and validation. The
algorithms can be extended to support additional modalities and simulation
parameters.

## Getting Started

To start using the Computational Phantoms project, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**: Clone this repository to your local machine using
the following command:
 ```
 git clone
https://github.com/your-username/computational-phantoms.git
 ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory**: Move into the project directory using
the command:
 ```
 cd computational-phantoms
 ```

3. **Choose and Run Algorithm**: Select the algorithm corresponding to the
desired medical image modality and execute it. Follow the provided documentation
for algorithm-specific instructions.

4. **Generate Study Sets**: Run the algorithm to generate DICOM study sets of
computational phantoms for your chosen modality.

## Contributions

Contributions to the Computational Phantoms project are welcome! If you have
ideas for algorithm enhancements, additional modalities, or improvements to the
documentation, please feel free to submit pull requests.

## Contact

For any inquiries or assistance, you can reach out to Ljubomir Kurij, the
project maintainer, at [ljubomir_kurij@protonmail.com](mailto:ljubomir_kurij@protonmail.com).